Add architectural and implementation documentation for Authentication (#1978)
scality/metalk8s: docs/developer/architecture/authentication.rst

  - the fact that most consumers of Prometheus stats are not human
    (e.g. Grafana, a federating Prometheus, scripts and others), hence not
    well-suited for performing the OIDC flow

Design Choices
--------------

`Dex <https://github.com/dexidp/dex/>`_ is chosen as an Identity Provider(IdP)
in MetalK8s based on the above :ref:`authentication-requirements` enforced

> by the following reasons:

Reviewer: _enforced by the following reasons_ doesn't make much sense to me. Maybe just use _for the following reasons_

* Dex's support for multiple plugins enable integrating the OIDC flow
  with existing user management systems such as Active Directory,
  LDAP, SAML and others.
* Dex can be seamlessly deployed in a Kubernetes cluster.
* Dex provides access to a highly customizable UI which is a step closer to
  good user experience which we advocate for.

> * Dex can act as a fall back Identity Provider incases were the external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Dex can act as a fallback Identity Provider in cases where the external
```

>   providers become unable or are not configured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  providers become unavailable or are not configured.
```

log into your Kubernetes cluster by using various identity providers such as
LDAP.

* `ORY Hydra <https://github.com/ory/hydra/>`_

It's an OpenID Connect provider optimized for low resource consumption.
ORY Hydra is not an identity provider but it is able to connect to existing
identity providers.

Implementation Details
----------------------

Iteration 1
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Using Salt, generate self-signed certificates needed for Dex deployment
- Deploy Dex in MetalK8s from the official **Dex Charts** while making use of
  the generated certificates above
- Provision an admin superuser
- Configure Kubernetes API server flags to use Dex
- Expose Dex on the control-plane using Ingress
- Print the admin super user credentials to the CLI after MetalK8s bootstrap is
  complete
- Implement MetalK8s UI integration with Dex
- Theme the Dex GUI to match MetalK8s UI specs(optional for iteration 1)

Iteration 2
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Provide documentation on how to integrate with these external Identity
  Providers especially LDAP and Microsoft Active Directory.

Iteration 3
~~~~~~~~~~~

- Provide Single sign-on(SSO) for Grafana
- Provide SSO between admin UIs

> Iteration 4

Reviewer: In this iteration, add an item for: `Ask for changing the admin superuser password after bootstrap, providing an example CLI command`

~~~~~~~~~~~

- Provide a CLI for user management and provisioning

The following operations will be supported using the CLI tool:

- Create users password
- List existing passwords
- Delete users password
- Edit existing password

The CLI tool will also be used to create MetalK8s dedicated roles as already
specified in the requirements section of this document.
(see high-level roles from the requirements document)

Since it is not advisable to perform the above mentioned operations at the Dex
ConfigMap level, using the Dex gRPC API could be the way to go.

> Iteration 5

Reviewer: If this is done, one could remove the message from the previous iteration to change the default admin password, and instead request that change from the UI itself (that's how most Web applications do it, such as Grafana)

~~~~~~~~~~~

- Provide UI integration that performs similar CLI operations for user
  management and provisioning.

This means from the MetalK8s UI, a Cluster administrator should be able to do
the following:

- Create passwords for users
- List existing passwords
- Delete users password
- Edit existing password

.. note::

   This iteration is completely optional for reasons being that the Identity
   Provider from Dex acts as a fallback for Kubernetes Administrators who do
   not want to use an external Identity Provider(mostly because they
   have a very small user store).

Documentation
-------------

> In the Operational Guide:

Reviewer: Also mention how to setup/change the admin password in the Installation/Quickstart guide(s).

* Document the predefined dex roles(Cluster Admin role, Solution Admin role,
  Read Only role), their access levels and how to create them.
* Document how to create users and the secrets associated to them.
* Document how to integrate Dex with external Identity Providers such as LDAP
  and Microsoft Active Directory.

Test Plan
---------

We could add some automated end-to-end tests for Dex user creation,
and deletion using the CLI and then setup a mini-lab on scality cloud to try
out the UI integration.

.. note::
   Sync with the team that has done SAML integration for S3C to discuss on how

>    to test MetalK8s & Dex integration in the CI.

Reviewer: Mmh that's really a comment internal to Scality, I'd remove it from this doc.
